upgrade-arl-auto/decide_to_use_the_aggregate_relocation_guide.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/decide_to_use_the_aggregate_relocation_guide.html
keywords: aggregate relocation, decide to use, upgrade, model, matrix, replacement, controller
summary: "Decide whether to use ARL to upgrade controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7 by using `system controller replace` commands."
---

= Decide whether to use the aggregate relocation procedure
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
This content describes how to upgrade the storage controllers in an HA pair with new controllers while keeping all the existing data and disks. This is a complex procedure that should be used only by experienced administrators.

Use this content under the following circumstances:

* You are upgrading NetApp controllers running ONTAP 9.5, 9.6 or 9.7. This document is not applicable to upgrades to ONTAP 9.8.

* You do not want to add the new controllers as a new HA pair to the cluster and migrate the data using volume moves.

* You are experienced in administering ONTAP and are comfortable with the risks of working in the diagnostic privilege mode.

* If you are upgrading a MetroCluster configuration, it is a 4-node or higher FC configuration, and all nodes are running ONTAP 9.6 or 9.7.

NOTE: You can use NetApp Storage Encryption (NSE), NetApp Volume Encryption (NVE), and NetApp Aggregate Encryption (NAE) with this procedure.

[[sys_commands_95_97_supported_systems]] The following tables shows the supported model matrix for the controller upgrade.

[cols="50,50"]
|===
|Old controller |Replacement controller

|FAS8020, FAS8040, FAS8060, FAS8080
|FAS8200, FAS8300, FAS8700, FAS9000
|AFF8020, AFF8040, AFF8060, AFF8080
|AFF A300, AFF A400, AFF A700^1^, AFF A800^2^
|FAS8200
|FAS8700, FAS9000, FAS8300^4^^,^ ^5^
|AFF A300
|AFF A700^1^, AFF A800^2^^,^ ^3^, AFF A400^4^^,^ ^5^
|===

NOTE: If your controller upgrade model combination is not in the above table, contact technical support.

^1^ARL automated upgrade for the AFF A700 system is supported from ONTAP 9.7P2.

^2^If you are updating to an AFF A800 or a system that supports internal and external disks, you must follow specific instructions for the root aggregate on internal NVMe disks. See link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html#step14[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3, Step 14] and link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.html#step14[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node4, Step 14].

^3^ARL automated upgrade from an AFF A300 to an AFF A800 system is supported from ONTAP 9.7P5.

^4^ARL automated upgrade from an AFF A300 to an AFF A400 and an FAS8200 to an FAS8300 system is supported from ONTAP 9.7P8.

^5^If you are upgrading from an AFF A300 to an AFF A400 or an FAS8200 to an FAS8300 system in a two-node switchless cluster configuration, you must pick temporary cluster ports for the controller upgrade. The AFF A400 and FAS8300 systems come in two configurations, as an Ethernet bundle where the mezzanine card ports are Ethernet type and as an FC bundle where the mezzanine ports are FC type.

* For an AFF A400 or an FAS8300 with an Ethernet type configuration, you can use any of the two mezzanine ports as temporary cluster ports.
* For an AFF A400 or an FAS8300 with an FC type configuration, you must add a four-port 10GbE network interface card (part number X1147A) to provide temporary cluster ports.
* After you complete a controller upgrade by using temporary cluster ports, you can nondisruptively migrate cluster LIFs to e3a and e3b, 100GbE ports on an AFF A400 system, and e0c and e0d, 100GbE ports on an FAS8300 system.
// BURT 1367153 30-Aug-2021

include::../_include/ru_auto_decide_use_arl_guide_end.adoc[]

// 2021-04-14 Burt 1367155

Commit message:

Restructure sidebar and replace "Overview" topic titles

upgrade-arl-auto/decide_to_use_the_aggregate_relocation_guide.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/decide_to_use_the_aggregate_relocation_guide.html
keywords: aggregate relocation, decide to use, upgrade, model, matrix, replacement, controller
summary: "Decide whether to use ARL to upgrade controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7 by using `system controller replace` commands."
---
= Decide whether to use this aggregate relocation procedure
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
There are several aggregate relocation (ARL) methods for upgrading controller hardware. This procedure describes how to use ARL with "system controller replace" commands to upgrade the storage controllers in an HA pair with new controllers while keeping the existing data and disks. You should only use this complex procedure if you are an experienced administrator. 

To help you decide if this ARL procedure is suitable for your controller hardware upgrade, you should review all the following circumstances for supported upgrades:

* You are upgrading NetApp controllers running ONTAP 9.5, 9.6 or 9.7. This document is not applicable to upgrades to ONTAP 9.8.

* You don't want to add the new controllers as a new HA pair to the cluster and migrate the data using volume moves.

* You are experienced in administering ONTAP and are comfortable with the risks of working in the diagnostic privilege mode.

* Your hardware upgrade combination is listed in the <<sys_commands_95_97_supported_systems,supported model matrix>>.

* If you are upgrading a MetroCluster configuration, it is a 4-node or higher FC configuration, and all nodes are running ONTAP 9.6 or 9.7.

NOTE: You can use NetApp Storage Encryption (NSE), NetApp Volume Encryption (NVE), and NetApp Aggregate Encryption (NAE) with this procedure.

[[sys_commands_95_97_supported_systems]] 
== Supported system upgrade combinations

The following tables shows the supported model matrix for the controller upgrade using this ARL procedure.

[cols="50,50"]
|===
|Old controller |Replacement controller

|FAS8020, FAS8040, FAS8060, FAS8080
|FAS8200, FAS8300, FAS8700, FAS9000
|AFF8020, AFF8040, AFF8060, AFF8080
|AFF A300, AFF A400, AFF A700^1^, AFF A800^2^
|FAS8200
|FAS8700, FAS9000, FAS8300^4^^,^ ^5^
|AFF A300
|AFF A700^1^, AFF A800^2^^,^ ^3^, AFF A400^4^^,^ ^5^
|===

NOTE: If your controller upgrade model combination is not in the above table, contact technical support.

^1^ARL automated upgrade for the AFF A700 system is supported from ONTAP 9.7P2.

^2^If you are updating to an AFF A800 or a system that supports internal and external disks, you must follow specific instructions for the root aggregate on internal NVMe disks. See link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html#step14[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3, Step 14] and link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.html#step14[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node4, Step 14].

^3^ARL automated upgrade from an AFF A300 to an AFF A800 system is supported from ONTAP 9.7P5.

^4^ARL automated upgrade from an AFF A300 to an AFF A400 and an FAS8200 to an FAS8300 system is supported from ONTAP 9.7P8.

^5^If you are upgrading from an AFF A300 to an AFF A400 or an FAS8200 to an FAS8300 system in a two-node switchless cluster configuration, you must pick temporary cluster ports for the controller upgrade. The AFF A400 and FAS8300 systems come in two configurations, as an Ethernet bundle where the mezzanine card ports are Ethernet type and as an FC bundle where the mezzanine ports are FC type.

* For an AFF A400 or an FAS8300 with an Ethernet type configuration, you can use any of the two mezzanine ports as temporary cluster ports.
* For an AFF A400 or an FAS8300 with an FC type configuration, you must add a four-port 10GbE network interface card (part number X1147A) to provide temporary cluster ports.
* After you complete a controller upgrade by using temporary cluster ports, you can nondisruptively migrate cluster LIFs to e3a and e3b, 100GbE ports on an AFF A400 system, and e0c and e0d, 100GbE ports on an FAS8300 system.
// BURT 1367153 30-Aug-2021

include::../_include/ru_all_decide_use_arl_guide_end.adoc[]

// 2021-04-14 Burt 1367155
