upgrade-arl-auto/index.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/index.html
keywords: aggregate, relocation, controller, hardware, aggregates, flexarray, metrocluster, terminology
summary: "You can upgrade controller hardware running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7 by using `system controller replace` commands, relocating the ownership of non-root aggregates."
---

= Overview
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
This procedure describes how to upgrade the controller hardware using aggregate relocation (ARL) for the following system configurations:

[cols=3*,options="header",cols="40,20,40"]
|===
|Method |ONTAP version |Supported systems

|Using `system controller replace` commands
|9.5 to 9.7
|link:decide_to_use_the_aggregate_relocation_guide.html#sys_commands_95_97_supported_systems[Link to supported systems matrix]
|===

During the procedure, you upgrade the original controller hardware with the replacement controller hardware, relocating the ownership of non-root aggregates. You migrate aggregates multiple times from node to node to confirm that at least one node is serving data from the aggregates throughout the upgrade procedure. You also migrate data logical interfaces (LIFs) and assign the network ports on the new controller to the interface groups as you proceed.

.Terminology used in this information

In this information, the original nodes are called "node1" and "node2", and the new nodes are called "node3" and "node4". During the described procedure, "node1" is replaced by "node3", and "node2" is replaced by "node4".

The terms "node1", "node2", "node3", and "node4" are used only to distinguish between the original and new nodes. When following the procedure, you must substitute the real names of your original and new nodes. However, in reality, the names of the nodes do not change: "node3" has the same name as "node1", and "node4" has the same name as "node2" after the controller hardware is upgraded.

Throughout this information, the term "systems with FlexArray Virtualization Software" refers to systems that belong to these new platforms. The term "V-Series system" refers to the separate hardware systems that can attach to storage arrays.

.Important information:

* This procedure is complex and assumes that you have advanced ONTAP administration skills. You also must read and understand link:guidelines_for_upgrading_controllers_with_arl.html[Guidelines for upgrading controllers with ARL] and the  link:overview_of_the_arl_upgrade.html[Overview of the ARL upgrade] before beginning the upgrade.

* This procedure assumes that the replacement controller hardware is new and has not been used. The steps required to prepare used controllers with the `wipeconfig` command are not included in this procedure. You must contact technical support if the replacement controller hardware was previously used, especially if the controllers were running Data ONTAP in 7-Mode.

* You can use this procedure to upgrade the controller hardware in clusters with more than two nodes; however, you need to perform the procedure separately for each HA pair in the cluster.

* This procedure applies to FAS systems, V-Series systems, AFF systems, and systems with FlexArray Virtualization Software. FAS systems released after ONTAP 9.5 can attach to storage arrays if the required license is installed. The existing V-Series systems are supported in ONTAP 9.5. For more information about the storage array and V-Series models, refer to link:other_references.html[References] to link to the _Hardware Universe_ and go to the V-Series Support Matrix.

* Beginning with ONTAP 9.6, this procedure applies to systems running 4-node MetroCluster configuration or higher. Because MetroCluster configuration sites can be at two physically different locations, the automated controller upgrade must be carried out individually at each MetroCluster site for an HA pair.

* If you are upgrading from an AFF A320 system, you can use volume moves to upgrade controller hardware or contact technical support. If you are willing to do volume moves, refer to link:other_references.html[References] to link to _Upgrade by moving volumes or storage_.

// Page 5 in PDF
// Clean-up, 2022-03-09

Commit message:

Restructure sidebar and replace "Overview" topic titles

upgrade-arl-auto/index.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/index.html
keywords: aggregate, relocation, controller, hardware, aggregates, flexarray, metrocluster, terminology
summary: "You can upgrade controller hardware running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7 by using `system controller replace` commands, relocating the ownership of non-root aggregates."
---
= Learn about using this ARL procedure
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
This procedure describes how to upgrade the controller hardware using aggregate relocation (ARL) with "system controller replace commands" on systems running ONTAP 9.7, 9.6, or 9.5. 

For information on the supported systems matrix, see link:decide_to_use_the_aggregate_relocation_guide.html#sys_commands_95_97_supported_systems[Supported system upgrade combinations].

During the procedure, you upgrade the original controller hardware with the replacement controller hardware, relocating the ownership of non-root aggregates. You migrate aggregates multiple times from node to node to confirm that at least one node is serving data from the aggregates throughout the upgrade procedure. You also migrate data logical interfaces (LIFs) and assign the network ports on the new controller to the interface groups as you proceed.

.Terminology used in this information

In this information, the original nodes are called "node1" and "node2", and the new nodes are called "node3" and "node4". During the described procedure, "node1" is replaced by "node3", and "node2" is replaced by "node4".

The terms "node1", "node2", "node3", and "node4" are used only to distinguish between the original and new nodes. When following the procedure, you must substitute the real names of your original and new nodes. However, in reality, the names of the nodes do not change: "node3" has the same name as "node1", and "node4" has the same name as "node2" after the controller hardware is upgraded.

Throughout this information, the term "systems with FlexArray Virtualization Software" refers to systems that belong to these new platforms. The term "V-Series system" refers to the separate hardware systems that can attach to storage arrays.

.Important information:

* This procedure is complex and assumes that you have advanced ONTAP administration skills. You also must read and understand link:guidelines_for_upgrading_controllers_with_arl.html[Guidelines for upgrading controllers with ARL] and the  link:overview_of_the_arl_upgrade.html[Overview of the ARL upgrade] before beginning the upgrade.

* This procedure assumes that the replacement controller hardware is new and has not been used. The steps required to prepare used controllers with the `wipeconfig` command are not included in this procedure. You must contact technical support if the replacement controller hardware was previously used, especially if the controllers were running Data ONTAP in 7-Mode.

* You can use this procedure to upgrade the controller hardware in clusters with more than two nodes; however, you need to perform the procedure separately for each HA pair in the cluster.

* This procedure applies to FAS systems, V-Series systems, AFF systems, and systems with FlexArray Virtualization Software. FAS systems released after ONTAP 9.5 can attach to storage arrays if the required license is installed. The existing V-Series systems are supported in ONTAP 9.5. For more information about the storage array and V-Series models, refer to link:other_references.html[References] to link to the _Hardware Universe_ and go to the V-Series Support Matrix.

* Beginning with ONTAP 9.6, this procedure applies to systems running 4-node MetroCluster configuration or higher. Because MetroCluster configuration sites can be at two physically different locations, the automated controller upgrade must be carried out individually at each MetroCluster site for an HA pair.

* If you are upgrading from an AFF A320 system, you can use volume moves to upgrade controller hardware or contact technical support. If you are willing to do volume moves, refer to link:other_references.html[References] to link to _Upgrade by moving volumes or storage_.

// Page 5 in PDF
// Clean-up, 2022-03-09
