upgrade-arl-auto/install_boot_node4.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/install_boot_node4.html
keywords: install, boot, node4, install ONTAP
summary: "Install and boot node4 and install ONTAP software when upgrading controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7 by using `system controller replace` commands."
---

= Install and boot node4
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You must install node4 in the rack, transfer the node2 connections to to node4, boot node4, and install ONTAP. You must then reassign any spare disks on node2, any disks belonging to the root volume, and any non-root aggregates that were not relocated to node3 earlier in the process, as outlined in this section.

.About this task

The relocation operation is paused at the beginning of this stage. This process is mostly automated; the operation pauses to enable you to check its status. You must manually resume the operation. In addition, you must verify that the NAS data LIFs have successfully moved to node4.

include::../_include/ru_auto_install_and_boot_node4_intro_step_5.adoc[]


[start=6]
.  [[step6]]Configure the netboot connection by choosing one of the following actions.
+
NOTE: You must use the management port and IP as the netboot connection. Do not use a data LIF IP or a data outage might occur while the upgrade is being performed.

+
[cols=2*,options="header"cols="30,70"]
|===
|If Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is... |Then...

|Running
|Configure the connection automatically by entering the following command at the boot environment prompt:
`ifconfig e0M -auto`
|Not running
|Manually configure the connection by entering the following command at the boot environment prompt:
`ifconfig e0M -addr=_filer_addr_ -mask=_netmask_ -gw=_gateway_ -dns=_dns_addr_ -domain=_dns_domain_`

`_filer_addr_` is the IP address of the storage system  (mandatory).
`_netmask_` is the network mask of the storage system (mandatory).
`_gateway_` is the gateway for the storage system (mandatory).
`_dns_addr_` is the IP address of a name server on your network (optional).
`_dns_domain_` is the Domain Name Service (DNS) domain name. If you use this optional  parameter, you do not need a fully qualified domain name in the netboot server URL; you need only the server's host name.

NOTE: Other parameters might be necessary for your interface. Enter `help ifconfig` at the firmware prompt for details.
|===

include::../_include/ru_auto_install_and_boot_node4_step_7_22.adoc[]

[start=23]
. [[auto_install4_step23]]Add the FC initiator ports of the new node to the switch zones.
+
If required, modify the onboard ports to initiator by referring to the link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node4[Configure FC ports on node4]. See your storage array and zoning documentation for further instructions on zoning.

include::../_include/ru_auto_install_and_boot_node4_step_24_26.adoc[]

[start=27]
. [[auto_install4_step27]]If you have NetApp Storage Encryption (NSE) drives installed, perform the following steps.
+
NOTE: If you have not already done so earlier in the procedure, see the Knowledge Base article https://kb.netapp.com/onprem/ontap/Hardware/How_to_tell_if_a_drive_is_FIPS_certified[How to tell if a drive is FIPS certified^] to determine the type of self-encrypting drives that are in use.

.. Set `bootarg.storageencryption.support` to `true` or `false`:
+
[cols="35,65"]
|===
|If the following drives are in use…	|Then…

|NSE drives that conform to FIPS 140-2 Level 2 self-encryption requirements
|`setenv bootarg.storageencryption.support *true*`

|NetApp non-FIPS SEDs
|`setenv bootarg.storageencryption.support *false*`

|===
+
[NOTE]
====
You cannot mix FIPS drives with other types of drives on the same node or HA pair.
You can mix SEDs with non-encrypting drives on the same node or HA pair.
====

.. Contact NetApp Support for assistance with restoring the onboard key management information.

. Boot node into boot menu:
+
`boot_ontap menu`
+
If you do not have an FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration, perform link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.html#auto_check_4_step15[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node4, Step 15] so that node4 can recognize node2’s disks.

. [[step29]] For MetroCluster configurations, V-Series systems, and systems with FlexArray Virtualization software connected to storage arrays, go to link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.html# auto_check_4_step15[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node4, Step 15].

// 2023 APR 17, ontap-systems-upgrade-issues-64/BURT 1519747
// Clean-up, 2022-03-09
// BURT 1476241 2022-05-13

Commit message:

Create the reassign disks adocs for arl 9.5 to 9.7

upgrade-arl-auto/install_boot_node4.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/install_boot_node4.html
keywords: install, boot, node4, install ONTAP
summary: "Install and boot node4 and install ONTAP software when upgrading controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7 by using `system controller replace` commands."
---
= Install and boot node4
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You must install node4 in the rack, transfer the node2 connections to to node4, boot node4, and install ONTAP. You must then reassign any spare disks on node2, any disks belonging to the root volume, and any non-root aggregates that were not relocated to node3 earlier in the process, as outlined in this section.

.About this task

The relocation operation is paused at the beginning of this stage. This process is mostly automated; the operation pauses to enable you to check its status. You must manually resume the operation. In addition, you must verify that the NAS data LIFs have successfully moved to node4.

include::../_include/ru_auto_install_and_boot_node4_intro_step_5.adoc[]


[start=6]
.  [[step6]]Configure the netboot connection by choosing one of the following actions.
+
NOTE: You must use the management port and IP as the netboot connection. Do not use a data LIF IP or a data outage might occur while the upgrade is being performed.

+
[cols=2*,options="header"cols="30,70"]
|===
|If Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is... |Then...

|Running
|Configure the connection automatically by entering the following command at the boot environment prompt:
`ifconfig e0M -auto`
|Not running
|Manually configure the connection by entering the following command at the boot environment prompt:
`ifconfig e0M -addr=_filer_addr_ -mask=_netmask_ -gw=_gateway_ -dns=_dns_addr_ -domain=_dns_domain_`

`_filer_addr_` is the IP address of the storage system  (mandatory).
`_netmask_` is the network mask of the storage system (mandatory).
`_gateway_` is the gateway for the storage system (mandatory).
`_dns_addr_` is the IP address of a name server on your network (optional).
`_dns_domain_` is the Domain Name Service (DNS) domain name. If you use this optional  parameter, you do not need a fully qualified domain name in the netboot server URL; you need only the server's host name.

NOTE: Other parameters might be necessary for your interface. Enter `help ifconfig` at the firmware prompt for details.
|===

include::../_include/ru_auto_install_and_boot_node4_step_7_22.adoc[]

[start=23]
. [[auto_install4_step23]]Add the FC initiator ports of the new node to the switch zones.
+
If required, modify the onboard ports to initiator by referring to the link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node4[Configure FC ports on node4]. See your storage array and zoning documentation for further instructions on zoning.

include::../_include/ru_auto_install_and_boot_node4_step_24_26.adoc[]

[start=27]
. [[auto_install4_step27]]If you have NetApp Storage Encryption (NSE) drives installed, perform the following steps.
+
NOTE: If you have not already done so earlier in the procedure, see the Knowledge Base article https://kb.netapp.com/onprem/ontap/Hardware/How_to_tell_if_a_drive_is_FIPS_certified[How to tell if a drive is FIPS certified^] to determine the type of self-encrypting drives that are in use.

.. Set `bootarg.storageencryption.support` to `true` or `false`:
+
[cols="35,65"]
|===
|If the following drives are in use…	|Then…

|NSE drives that conform to FIPS 140-2 Level 2 self-encryption requirements
|`setenv bootarg.storageencryption.support *true*`

|NetApp non-FIPS SEDs
|`setenv bootarg.storageencryption.support *false*`

|===
+
[NOTE]
====
You cannot mix FIPS drives with other types of drives on the same node or HA pair.
You can mix SEDs with non-encrypting drives on the same node or HA pair.
====

.. Contact NetApp Support for assistance with restoring the onboard key management information.

. Boot node into boot menu:
+
`boot_ontap menu`
+
If you do not have an FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration, perform link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html#reassign-node2-node4-step1[Reassign node2 disks to node4, Step 1] so that node4 can recognize node2’s disks.

. [[step29]] For MetroCluster configurations, V-Series systems, and systems with FlexArray Virtualization software connected to storage arrays, go to link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html#reassign-node2-node4-step1[Reassign node2 disks to node4, Step 1].

// 2023 APR 17, ontap-systems-upgrade-issues-64/BURT 1519747
// Clean-up, 2022-03-09
// BURT 1476241 2022-05-13
