upgrade-arl-auto/set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html
keywords: FC, UTA, UTA2, configure, node3, CNA adapters, onboard ports
summary: "Configure node3 onboard FC ports, UTA/UTA2 ports, or the UTA/UTA2 card when upgrading controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7 by using `system controller replace` commands."
---
= Set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node3
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
include::../_include/ru_auto_set_fc_or_uta_uta2_confgig_node3_intro.adoc[]

* If node3 doesn't have onboard FC ports, onboard UTA/UTA2 ports, or a UTA/UTA2 card, and you are upgrading a system with storage disks, you can skip to link:reassign-node1-disks-to-node3.html[Reassign node1 disks to node3].

include::../_include/ru_auto_config_fc_ports_node3.adoc[]

[start=8]
. If the system that you are upgrading has storage disks, perform one of the following actions:
+
* If node3 has a UTA/UTA2 card or UTA/UTA2 onboard ports, go to <<Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3>>.
* If node3 doesn't have a UTA/UTA2 card or UTA/UTA2 onboard ports, skip <<Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3>> and go to link:reassign-node1-disks-to-node3.html[Reassign node1 disks to node3].

include::../_include/ru_auto_check_config_uta_uta2_ports_node3_intro_step_11.adoc[]

[start=12]
. [[auto_check3_step12]]If the system has storage disks, go to link:reassign-node1-disks-to-node3.html[Reassign node1 disks to node3]. 

[start=13]
include::../_include/ru_auto_check_config_uta_uta2_ports_node3_steps_13.adoc[]

. [[step14]]Boot the node into boot menu by running `boot_ontap menu`. 
+
If you are upgrading to an AFF A800 system, go to link:reassign-node1-disks-to-node3.html#auto_check3_step9[Reassign node1 disks to node3, Step 9].
// 12 Jan 2023, ontap-systems-upgrade-issues 13, 35 and 36
// top section of page 31 in PDF
// 2022-06-02, Issue 55

Commit message:

Fix typos and other formatting corrections

upgrade-arl-auto/set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html
keywords: FC, UTA, UTA2, configure, node3, CNA adapters, onboard ports
summary: "Configure node3 onboard FC ports, UTA/UTA2 ports, or the UTA/UTA2 card when upgrading controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7 by using `system controller replace` commands."
---
= Set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node3
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
include::../_include/ru_auto_set_fc_or_uta_uta2_confgig_node3_intro.adoc[]

* If node3 doesn't have onboard FC ports, onboard UTA/UTA2 ports, or a UTA/UTA2 card, and you are upgrading a system with storage disks, you can skip to link:reassign-node1-disks-to-node3.html[Reassign node1 disks to node3].

include::../_include/ru_auto_config_fc_ports_node3.adoc[]

[start=8]
. Perform one of the following actions:
+
* If node3 has a UTA/UTA2 card or UTA/UTA2 onboard ports, go to <<Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3>>.
* If node3 doesn't have a UTA/UTA2 card or UTA/UTA2 onboard ports, skip <<Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3>> and go to link:reassign-node1-disks-to-node3.html[Reassign node1 disks to node3].

include::../_include/ru_auto_check_config_uta_uta2_ports_node3_intro_step_11.adoc[]

[start=12]
[[auto_check3_step12]] 
include::../_include/ru_auto_check_config_uta_uta2_ports_node3_steps_13.adoc[]

. Boot the node into boot menu by running `boot_ontap menu`. 

.What's next?

If you are upgrading to an AFF A800 system, go to link:reassign-node1-disks-to-node3.html#auto_check3_step9[Reassign node1 disks to node3, Step 9].

For all other system upgrades, go to link:reassign-node1-disks-to-node3.html[Reassign node1 disks to node3].

// 12 Jan 2023, ontap-systems-upgrade-issues 13, 35 and 36
// top section of page 31 in PDF
// 2022-06-02, Issue 55
