upgrade-arl-auto/set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.html
keywords: fc configuration, uta configuration, UTA2 configuration, configure FC ports, UTA/UTA2 card, node4, target, adapter, ports
summary: "Configure node4 onboard FC ports, UTA/UTA2 ports, or the UTA/UTA2 card when upgrading controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7 by using `system controller replace` commands."
---
= Set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node4
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
include::../_include/ru_auto_set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4_intro.adoc[]

[NOTE]
====
If node4 doesn't have onboard FC ports, onboard UTA/UTA2 ports, or a UTA/UTA2 card, and you are upgrading a system with storage disks, you can skip to link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html[Reassign node2 disks to node4]. 

Make sure that node4 has sufficient rack space. If node4 is in a separate chassis from node2, you can put node4 in the same location as node3. If node2 and node4 are in the same chassis, then node4 is already in its appropriate rack location.
====

include::../_include/ru_auto_config_fc_ports_node4.adoc[]

[start=8]
. [[step8]]Skip this section and go to link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html[Reassign node2 disks to node4] if node4 doesn't have a UTA/UTA2 card or UTA/UTA2 onboard ports.

include::../_include/ru_auto_check_config_uta_uta2_ports_node4_intro_step_11.adoc[]

[start=12]
. [[step12]]If the system has storage disks |Go to link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html[Reassign node2 disks to node4].

. [[auto_check_4_step13]]Exit Maintenance mode:
+
`halt`

. [[step14]]Boot the node into boot menu:
+
`boot_ontap menu`
+
If you are upgrading to an AFF A800 system, go to link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html#auto_check_4_step9[Reassign node2 disks to node4, Step 9].

// 12 Jan 2023, ontap-systems-upgrade-issues 13, 35 and 36
// 2022-05-16, BURT 1476241

Commit message:

Fix typos and other formatting corrections

upgrade-arl-auto/set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.html
keywords: fc configuration, uta configuration, UTA2 configuration, configure FC ports, UTA/UTA2 card, node4, target, adapter, ports
summary: "Configure node4 onboard FC ports, UTA/UTA2 ports, or the UTA/UTA2 card when upgrading controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7 by using `system controller replace` commands."
---
= Set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node4
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
include::../_include/ru_auto_set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4_intro.adoc[]

[NOTE]
====
If node4 doesn't have onboard FC ports, onboard UTA/UTA2 ports, or a UTA/UTA2 card, and you are upgrading a system with storage disks, you can skip to link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html[Reassign node2 disks to node4]. 

Make sure that node4 has sufficient rack space. If node4 is in a separate chassis from node2, you can put node4 in the same location as node3. If node2 and node4 are in the same chassis, then node4 is already in its appropriate rack location.
====

include::../_include/ru_auto_config_fc_ports_node4.adoc[]

[start=8]
. [[step8]]Skip this section and go to link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html[Reassign node2 disks to node4] if node4 doesn't have a UTA/UTA2 card or UTA/UTA2 onboard ports.

include::../_include/ru_auto_check_config_uta_uta2_ports_node4_intro_step_11.adoc[]

[start=12]
. [[auto_check_4_step12]]Exit Maintenance mode:
+
`halt`

. Boot the node into boot menu:
+
`boot_ontap menu`

.What's next?

If you are upgrading to an AFF A800 system, go to link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html#auto_check_4_step9[Reassign node2 disks to node4, Step 9].

For all other system upgrades, go to link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html[Reassign node2 disks to node4].

// 12 Jan 2023, ontap-systems-upgrade-issues 13, 35 and 36
// 2022-05-16, BURT 1476241
