upgrade-arl-auto/stage_3_index.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/stage_3_index.html
keywords: stage 3, install node3, non-SAN data LIFs, non-root aggregates
summary: "Stage 3 process sequence for an ARL upgrade using `system controller replace` commands on controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7."
---
= Stage 3 overview
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
During Stage 3, you install and boot node3, map the cluster and node-management ports from node1 to node3, and verify the node3 installation. If required, you set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node3 and confirm that node3 has joined quorum. You also relocate the node1 NAS data LIFs and non-root aggregates from node2 to node3 and verify that the SAN LIFs exist on node3.

.Steps

. link:install_boot_node3.html[Install and boot node3]
. link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html[Set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node3]
. link:map_ports_node1_node3.html[Map ports from node1 to node3]
. link:join_quorum_node_has_different_ports_stage3.html[Joining the quorum when a node has a different set of network ports]
. link:verify_node3_installation.html[Verify the node3 installation]
. link:move_non_root_aggr_nas_lifs_node1_from_node2_to_node3.html[Move non-root aggregates and NAS data LIFs owned by node1 from node2 to node3]
// top section of pg. 26 in PDF

Commit message:

Create the reassign disks adocs for arl 9.5 to 9.7

upgrade-arl-auto/stage_3_index.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/stage_3_index.html
keywords: stage 3, install node3, non-SAN data LIFs, non-root aggregates
summary: "Stage 3 process sequence for an ARL upgrade using `system controller replace` commands on controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7."
---
= Stage 3 overview
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
During Stage 3, you install and boot node3, map the cluster and node-management ports from node1 to node3, reassign the node1 disks to node3, and verify the node3 installation. If required, you set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node3 and confirm that node3 has joined quorum. You also relocate the node1 NAS data LIFs and non-root aggregates from node2 to node3 and verify that the SAN LIFs exist on node3.

.Steps

. link:install_boot_node3.html[Install and boot node3]
. link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html[Set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node3]
. link:reassign-node1-disks-to-node3.html[Reassign node1 disks to node3]
. link:map_ports_node1_node3.html[Map ports from node1 to node3]
. link:join_quorum_node_has_different_ports_stage3.html[Joining the quorum when a node has a different set of network ports]
. link:verify_node3_installation.html[Verify the node3 installation]
. link:move_non_root_aggr_nas_lifs_node1_from_node2_to_node3.html[Move non-root aggregates and NAS data LIFs owned by node1 from node2 to node3]
// top section of pg. 26 in PDF
