upgrade-arl-auto/stage_5_index.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/stage_5_index.html
keywords: install, boot, node4, node2, node-management,  stage 5
summary: "Stage 5 process sequence for an ARL upgrade using `system controller replace` commands on controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7."
---
= Stage 5 overview
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]

During Stage 5, you install and boot node4, map the cluster and node-management ports from node2 to node4, and verify the node4 installation. If required, you set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node4 and confirm that node4 has joined quorum. You also relocate node2 NAS data LIFs and non-root aggregates from node3 to node4 and verify the SAN LIFs exist on node4.

.Steps

. link:install_boot_node4.html[Install and boot node4]
. link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.html[Set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node4]
. link:map_ports_node2_node4.html[Map ports from node2 to node4]
. link:join_quorum_node_has_different_ports_stage5.html[Join the quorum when a node has a different set of network ports]
. link:verify_node4_installation.html[Verify the node4 installation]
. link:move_non_root_aggr_and_nas_data_lifs_node2_from_node3_to_node4.html[Move non-root aggregates and NAS data LIFs owned by node2 from node3 to node4]

Commit message:

Create the reassign disks adocs for arl 9.5 to 9.7

upgrade-arl-auto/stage_5_index.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-auto/stage_5_index.html
keywords: install, boot, node4, node2, node-management,  stage 5
summary: "Stage 5 process sequence for an ARL upgrade using `system controller replace` commands on controllers running ONTAP 9.5 to 9.7."
---
= Stage 5 overview
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]

During Stage 5, you install and boot node4, map the cluster and node-management ports from node2 to node4, reassign the node2 disks to node4, and verify the node4 installation. If required, you set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node4 and confirm that node4 has joined quorum. You also relocate node2 NAS data LIFs and non-root aggregates from node3 to node4 and verify the SAN LIFs exist on node4.

.Steps

. link:install_boot_node4.html[Install and boot node4]
. link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_node4.html[Set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node4]
. link:reassign-node2-disks-to-node4.html[Reassign node2 disks to node4]
. link:map_ports_node2_node4.html[Map ports from node2 to node4]
. link:join_quorum_node_has_different_ports_stage5.html[Join the quorum when a node has a different set of network ports]
. link:verify_node4_installation.html[Verify the node4 installation]
. link:move_non_root_aggr_and_nas_data_lifs_node2_from_node3_to_node4.html[Move non-root aggregates and NAS data LIFs owned by node2 from node3 to node4]
