_include/ru_auto_install_boot_node3_intro_step_5.adoc, before:

You must install node3 in the rack, transfer node1's connections to node3, boot node3, and install ONTAP. You must then reassign any of node1's spare disks, any disks belonging to the root volume, and any non-root aggregates that were not relocated to node2 earlier in the process, as outlined in this section.

.About this task

The relocation operation is paused at the beginning of this stage. This process is largely automated; the operation pauses to enable you to check its status. You must manually resume the operation. In addition, you must verify the SAN LIFs have successfully moved to node3.

You need to netboot node3 if it does not have the same version of ONTAP 9 that is installed on node1. After you install node3, boot it from the ONTAP 9 image stored on the web server. You can then download the correct files to the boot media device for subsequent system boots, by following the instructions in link:prepare_for_netboot.html[Prepare for netboot].

.Important:

* If you are upgrading a V-Series system connected to storage arrays or a system with FlexArray Virtualization software that is connected to storage arrays, you need to complete <<auto_install3_step1,Step 1>> through <<auto_install3_step21,Step 21>>, then leave this section and follow instructions in the link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node3[Configure FC ports on node3] and link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html#check-and-configure-utauta2-ports-on-node3[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3] sections as needed, entering commands in Maintenance mode. You must then return to this section and resume with <<auto_install3_step23,Step 23>>.
* If you are upgrading a system with storage disks, you need to complete this entire section and then go to the link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node3[Configure FC ports on node3] and link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html#check-and-configure-utauta2-ports-on-node3[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3] sections, entering commands at the cluster prompt.

.Steps

. [[auto_install3_step1]]Make sure that you have rack space for node3.
+
If node1 and node2 were in separate chassis, you can put node3 in the same rack location as node1. However, if node1 was in the same chassis with node2, then you need to put node3 into its own rack space, preferably close to the location of node1.

. [[auto_install3_step2]]Install node3 in the rack, following the _Installation and Setup Instructions_ for your node model.
+
NOTE: If you are upgrading to a system with both nodes in the same chassis, install node4 in the chassis as well as node3. If you do not, when you boot node3, the node will behave as if it were in a dual-chassis configuration, and when you boot node4, the interconnect between the nodes will not come up.

. [[auto_install3_step3]]Cable node3, moving the connections from node1 to node3.
+
Cable the following connections, using the _Installation and Setup Instructions_ or the _FlexArray Virtualization Installation Requirements and Reference_ for the node3 platform, the appropriate disk shelf document, and _HA pair management_.
+
Refer to link:other_references.html[References] to link to the _FlexArray Virtualization Installation Requirements and Reference_ and _HA pair management_.
+
* Console (remote management port)
* Cluster ports
* Data ports
* Cluster and node management ports
* Storage
* SAN configurations: iSCSI Ethernet and FC switch ports
+
NOTE: You might not need to move the interconnect card or the cluster interconnect cable connection from node1 to node3 because most platform models have a unique interconnect card model.
For the MetroCluster configuration, you need to move the FC-VI cable connections from node1 to node3. If the new host does not have an FC-VI card, you might need to move the FC-VI card.

. [[auto_install3_step4]]Turn on the power to node3, and then interrupt the boot process by pressing Ctrl-C at the console terminal to access the boot environment prompt.
+
If you are upgrading to a system with both nodes in the same chassis, node4 also reboots. However, you can disregard the node4 boot until later.
+
NOTE: When you boot node3, you might see the following warning message:
+
....
WARNING: The battery is unfit to retain data during a power outage. This is likely because the battery is discharged but could be due to other temporary conditions.
When the battery is ready, the boot process will complete and services will be engaged.
To override this delay, press 'c' followed by 'Enter'
....

. [[auto_install3_step5]]If you see the warning message in <<auto_install3_step4,Step 4>>, take the following actions:
.. Check for any console messages that might indicate a problem other than a low NVRAM battery, and, if necessary, take any required corrective action.
.. Allow the battery to charge and the boot process to complete.
+
WARNING: *Attention: Do not override the delay; failure to allow the battery to charge could result in a loss of data.*
+
NOTE: Refer to link:prepare_for_netboot.html[Prepare for netboot].

Commit message:

AFFFASDOC-329 Add note to secure drives

_include/ru_auto_install_boot_node3_intro_step_5.adoc, after:

You must install node3 in the rack, transfer node1's connections to node3, boot node3, and install ONTAP. You must then reassign any of node1's spare disks, any disks belonging to the root volume, and any non-root aggregates that were not relocated to node2 earlier in the process, as outlined in this section.

.About this task

The relocation operation is paused at the beginning of this stage. This process is largely automated; the operation pauses to enable you to check its status. You must manually resume the operation. In addition, you must verify the SAN LIFs have successfully moved to node3.

You need to netboot node3 if it does not have the same version of ONTAP 9 that is installed on node1. After you install node3, boot it from the ONTAP 9 image stored on the web server. You can then download the correct files to the boot media device for subsequent system boots, by following the instructions in link:prepare_for_netboot.html[Prepare for netboot].

[IMPORTANT]
====
* If you upgrading an AFF A700, AFF A800, or AFF C800 controller, you must ensure that all drives in the chassis are firmly seated against the midplane before removing node1. You do this from the front of the chassis by using your thumbs to push each drive until you feel a positive stop. 

* If you are upgrading a V-Series system connected to storage arrays or a system with FlexArray Virtualization software that is connected to storage arrays, you need to complete <<auto_install3_step1,Step 1>> through <<auto_install3_step21,Step 21>>, then leave this section and follow instructions in the link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node3[Configure FC ports on node3] and link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html#check-and-configure-utauta2-ports-on-node3[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3] sections as needed, entering commands in Maintenance mode. You must then return to this section and resume with <<auto_install3_step23,Step 23>>.
* If you are upgrading a system with storage disks, you need to complete this entire section and then go to the link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node3[Configure FC ports on node3] and link:set_fc_or_uta_uta2_config_on_node3.html#check-and-configure-utauta2-ports-on-node3[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3] sections, entering commands at the cluster prompt.
====

.Steps

. [[auto_install3_step1]]Make sure that you have rack space for node3.
+
If node1 and node2 were in separate chassis, you can put node3 in the same rack location as node1. However, if node1 was in the same chassis with node2, then you need to put node3 into its own rack space, preferably close to the location of node1.

. [[auto_install3_step2]]Install node3 in the rack, following the _Installation and Setup Instructions_ for your node model.
+
NOTE: If you are upgrading to a system with both nodes in the same chassis, install node4 in the chassis as well as node3. If you don't, when you boot node3, the node will behave as if it were in a dual-chassis configuration, and when you boot node4, the interconnect between the nodes will not come up.

. [[auto_install3_step3]]Cable node3, moving the connections from node1 to node3.
+
Cable the following connections, using the _Installation and Setup Instructions_ or the _FlexArray Virtualization Installation Requirements and Reference_ for the node3 platform, the appropriate disk shelf document, and _HA pair management_.
+
Refer to link:other_references.html[References] to link to the _FlexArray Virtualization Installation Requirements and Reference_ and _HA pair management_.
+
* Console (remote management port)
* Cluster ports
* Data ports
* Cluster and node management ports
* Storage
* SAN configurations: iSCSI Ethernet and FC switch ports
+
NOTE: You might not need to move the interconnect card or the cluster interconnect cable connection from node1 to node3 because most platform models have a unique interconnect card model.
For the MetroCluster configuration, you need to move the FC-VI cable connections from node1 to node3. If the new host does not have an FC-VI card, you might need to move the FC-VI card.

. [[auto_install3_step4]]Turn on the power to node3, and then interrupt the boot process by pressing Ctrl-C at the console terminal to access the boot environment prompt.
+
If you are upgrading to a system with both nodes in the same chassis, node4 also reboots. However, you can disregard the node4 boot until later.
+
NOTE: When you boot node3, you might see the following warning message:
+
....
WARNING: The battery is unfit to retain data during a power outage. This is likely because the battery is discharged but could be due to other temporary conditions.
When the battery is ready, the boot process will complete and services will be engaged.
To override this delay, press 'c' followed by 'Enter'
....

. [[auto_install3_step5]]If you see the warning message in <<auto_install3_step4,Step 4>>, take the following actions:
.. Check for any console messages that might indicate a problem other than a low NVRAM battery, and, if necessary, take any required corrective action.
.. Allow the battery to charge and the boot process to complete.
+
WARNING: *Attention: Do not override the delay; failure to allow the battery to charge could result in a loss of data.*
+
NOTE: Refer to link:prepare_for_netboot.html[Prepare for netboot].
