_include/ru_man_relocate_non_root_aggr_node2_node3.adoc, before:

Before you can replace node2 with node4, you must send an AutoSupport message for node2 and then relocate the non-root aggregates that are owned by node2 to node3.

.Steps

. [[step1]] Send an AutoSupport message to NetApp for node2:
+
`system node autosupport invoke -node _node2_ -type all -message "Upgrading _node2_ from _platform_old_ to _platform_new_"`

. Verify that the AutoSupport message was sent:
+
`system node autosupport show -node _node2_ -instance`
+
The fields "Last Subject Sent:"" and "Last Time Sent:"" contain the message title of the last message that was sent and the time when the message was sent.

. [[step3]]Relocate the non-root aggregates:

.. Set the privilege level to advanced:
+
`set -privilege advanced`

.. List the aggregates that are owned by node2:
+
`storage aggregate show -owner-name _node2_`

.. Start aggregate relocation:
+
`storage aggregate relocation start -node _node2_ -destination _node3_ -aggregate-list * -ndo-controller-upgrade true`
+
NOTE: The command locates only non-root aggregates.

.. When prompted, enter `y`.
+
Relocation occurs in the background. It can take anywhere from a few seconds to a couple of minutes to relocate an aggregate. The time includes both client outage and non-outage portions. The command does not relocate any offline or restricted aggregates.

.. Return to the admin privilege level:
+
`set -privilege admin`

. Verify the relocation status of node2:
+
`storage aggregate relocation show -node _node2_`
+
The output will display "Done" for an aggregate after it has been relocated.
+
NOTE: You must wait until all of the aggregates that are owned by node2 have been relocated to node3 before proceeding to the next step.

. Take one of the following actions:
+
[cols="35,65"]
|===
|If relocation of... |Then...

|All aggregates was successful
|Go to <<man_relocate_2_3_step6,Step 6>>.
|Any aggregates failed, or was vetoed
a|.. Display a detailed status message:
+
`storage aggregate show -instance`
+
You can also check the EMS logs to see the corrective action that is needed.
+
NOTE: The `event log show` command lists any errors that have occurred.

.. Perform the corrective action.

.. Set the privilege level to advanced:
+
`set -privilege advanced`

.. Relocate any failed or vetoed aggregates:
+
`storage aggregate relocation start -node _node2_ -destination _node3_ -aggregate-list * -ndo-controllerupgrade true`

.. When prompted, enter `y`.

.. Return to the admin privilege level:
+
`set -privilege admin`

If necessary, you can force the relocation by using one of the following methods:

* By overriding veto checks:
+
`storage aggregate relocation start -override-vetoes true -ndo-controller-upgrade`

* By overriding destination checks:
+
`storage aggregate relocation start -override-destination-checks true -ndocontroller-upgrade`

For more information about the storage aggregate relocation commands, go to link:other_references.html[References] to link to _Disk and aggregate management with the CLI_ and the _ONTAP 9 Commands: Manual Page Reference_.
|===

. [[man_relocate_2_3_step6]]Verify that all of the non-root aggregates are online on node3:
+
`storage aggregate show -node _node3_ -state offline -root false`
+
If any aggregates have gone offline or have become foreign, you must bring them online, once for each aggregate:
+
`storage aggregate online -aggregate _aggr_name_`

. Verify that all of the volumes are online on node3:
+
`volume show -node _node3_ -state offline`
+
If any volumes are offline on node3, you must bring them online, once for each volume:
+
`volume online -vserver _Vserver-name_ -volume _volume-name_`

. Verify that node2 does not own any online non-root aggregates:
+
`storage aggregate show -owner-name _node2_ -ha-policy sfo -state online`
+
The command output should not display online non-root aggregates because all of the non-root online aggregates have already been relocated to node3.
// 24 FEB 2021:  formatted from CMS
// 1476241, 2022-05-13

Commit message:

Add step to verify partner system id on node2 and 3

_include/ru_man_relocate_non_root_aggr_node2_node3.adoc, after:

Before you can replace node2 with node4, you need to send an AutoSupport message for node2 and then relocate the non-root aggregates that are owned by node2 to node3.

.Steps

. Verify the partner system ID is set correctly on node2 and node3:
+
* `system node run -node _node2_ -command sysconfig -a`
* `system node run -node _node3_ -command sysconfig -a`
. Send an AutoSupport message to NetApp for node2:
+
`system node autosupport invoke -node _node2_ -type all -message "Upgrading _node2_ from _platform_old_ to _platform_new_"`

. Verify that the AutoSupport message was sent:
+
`system node autosupport show -node _node2_ -instance`
+
The fields "Last Subject Sent:"" and "Last Time Sent:"" contain the message title of the last message that was sent and the time when the message was sent.

. Relocate the non-root aggregates:

.. Set the privilege level to advanced:
+
`set -privilege advanced`

.. List the aggregates that are owned by node2:
+
`storage aggregate show -owner-name _node2_`

.. Start aggregate relocation:
+
`storage aggregate relocation start -node _node2_ -destination _node3_ -aggregate-list * -ndo-controller-upgrade true`
+
NOTE: The command locates only non-root aggregates.

.. When prompted, enter `y`.
+
Relocation occurs in the background. It can take anywhere from a few seconds to a couple of minutes to relocate an aggregate. The time includes both client outage and non-outage portions. The command doesn't relocate any offline or restricted aggregates.

.. Return to the admin privilege level:
+
`set -privilege admin`

. Verify the relocation status of node2:
+
`storage aggregate relocation show -node _node2_`
+
The output displays "Done" for an aggregate after it has been relocated.
+
NOTE: You must wait until all of the aggregates that are owned by node2 have been relocated to node3 before proceeding to the next step.

. Take one of the following actions:
+
[cols="35,65"]
|===
|If relocation of... |Then...

|All aggregates was successful
|Go to <<man_relocate_2_3_step7,Step 7>>.
|Any aggregates failed, or was vetoed
a|.. Display a detailed status message:
+
`storage aggregate show -instance`
+
You can also check the EMS logs to see the corrective action that is needed.
+
NOTE: The `event log show` command lists any errors that have occurred.

.. Perform the corrective action.

.. Set the privilege level to advanced:
+
`set -privilege advanced`

.. Relocate any failed or vetoed aggregates:
+
`storage aggregate relocation start -node _node2_ -destination _node3_ -aggregate-list * -ndo-controllerupgrade true`

.. When prompted, enter `y`.

.. Return to the admin privilege level:
+
`set -privilege admin`

If necessary, you can force the relocation by using one of the following methods:

* By overriding veto checks:
+
`storage aggregate relocation start -override-vetoes true -ndo-controller-upgrade`

* By overriding destination checks:
+
`storage aggregate relocation start -override-destination-checks true -ndocontroller-upgrade`

For more information about the storage aggregate relocation commands, go to link:other_references.html[References] to link to _Disk and aggregate management with the CLI_ and the _ONTAP 9 Commands: Manual Page Reference_.
|===

. [[man_relocate_2_3_step7]]Verify that all of the non-root aggregates are online on node3:
+
`storage aggregate show -node _node3_ -state offline -root false`
+
If any aggregates have gone offline or have become foreign, you must bring them online, once for each aggregate:
+
`storage aggregate online -aggregate _aggr_name_`

. Verify that all of the volumes are online on node3:
+
`volume show -node _node3_ -state offline`
+
If any volumes are offline on node3, you must bring them online, once for each volume:
+
`volume online -vserver _Vserver-name_ -volume _volume-name_`

. Verify that node2 doesn't own any online non-root aggregates:
+
`storage aggregate show -owner-name _node2_ -ha-policy sfo -state online`
+
The command output should not display online non-root aggregates because all of the non-root online aggregates have already been relocated to node3.

// 2025 FEB 12, AFFFASDOC-296
// 1476241, 2022-05-13
