_include/ru_man_install_boot_node3_intro_to_step_15.adoc, before:

You must install node3 in the rack, transfer node1's connections to node3, boot node3, and install ONTAP. You must also reassign any of node1's spare disks, any disks belonging to the root volume, and any non-root aggregates not relocated to node2 earlier.

.About this task

You must netboot node3 if it does not have the same version of ONTAP 9 that is installed on node1. After you install node3, boot it from the ONTAP 9 image stored on the web server. You can then download the correct files to the boot media device for subsequent system boots. See link:prepare_for_netboot.html[Prepare for netboot].

However, you do not need to netboot node3 if it has the same or a later version of ONTAP 9 that is installed on node1.

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you are upgrading a V-Series system connected to storage arrays or a system with FlexArray Virtualization software that is connected to storage arrays, you must complete <<man_install3_step1, Step 1>> through <<man_install3_step5,Step 5>>, leave this section at <<man_install3_step6,Step 6>> and follow instructions in link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node3[Configure FC ports on node3] and link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#uta-ports-node3[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3] as needed, entering commands in maintenance mode. You must then return to this section and resume with <<man_install3_step7,Step 7>>.

However, if you are upgrading a system with storage disks, you must complete this entire section and then go to link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node3[Configure FC ports on node3] and link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#uta-ports-node3[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3], entering commands at the cluster prompt.
====

.Steps

. [[man_install3_step1]]Make sure that you have rack space for node3.
+
If node1 and node2 were in separate chassis, you can put node3 in the same rack location as node1. However, if node1 was in the same chassis with node2, then you must put node3 into its own rack space, preferably close to the location of node1.

. [[step2]]Install node3 in the rack, following the _Installation and Setup Instructions_ for your node model.
+
NOTE: If you are upgrading to a system with both nodes in the same chassis, install node4 in the chassis as well as node3. If you do not, when you boot node3, the node will behave as if it were in a dual-chassis configuration, and when you boot node4, the interconnect between the nodes will not come up.

. [[step3]]Cable node3, moving the connections from node1 to node3.
+
The following references help you make proper cable connections. Go to link:other_references.html[References] to link to them.
+
* _Installation and Setup Instructions_ or _FlexArray Virtualization Installation Requirements and Reference_ for the node3 platform
* The appropriate disk shelf procedure
* The _HA pair management_ documentation

+
Cable the following connections:

* Console (remote management port)
* Cluster ports
* Data ports
* Cluster and node management ports
* Storage
* SAN configurations: iSCSI Ethernet and FC switch ports
+
NOTE: You might not need to move the interconnect card or the cluster interconnect cable connection from node1 to node3 because most platform models have a unique interconnect card model. For the MetroCluster configuration, you must move the FC-VI cable connections from node1 to node3. If the new host does not have an FC-VI card, you might need to move the FC-VI card.

. [[man_install3_step4]]Turn on the power to node3, and then interrupt the boot process by pressing Ctrl-C at the console terminal to access the boot environment prompt.
+
If you are upgrading to a system with both nodes in the same chassis, node4 also reboots. However, you can disregard the node4 boot until later.
+
NOTE: When you boot node3, you might see the following warning message:
+
----
WARNING: The battery is unfit to retain data during a power outage. This is likely because the battery is discharged but could be due to other temporary conditions.
When the battery is ready, the boot process will complete and services will be engaged.
To override this delay, press 'c' followed by 'Enter'
----

. [[man_install3_step5]]If you see the warning message in <<man_install3_step4,Step 4>>, take the following actions:
.. Check for any console messages that might indicate a problem other than a low NVRAM battery, and, if necessary, take any required corrective action.
.. Allow the battery to charge and the boot process to complete.
+
NOTE: *Attention*: Do not override the delay; failure to allow the battery to charge could result in a loss of data.

. [[man_install3_step6]]Take one of the following actions:
+
[cols="35,65"]
|===
|If your system... |Then...

|Has disks and no back-end storage
|Skip Step 7 through Step 12 and go to <<man_install3_step13,Step 13>>.
|Is a V-Series system or a system with FlexArray Virtualization software connected to storage arrays
a|.. Go to link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html[Set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node3] and complete the subsections link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node3[Configure FC ports on node3] and link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#uta-ports-node3[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3], as appropriate to your system.

.. Return to this section and complete the remaining steps, beginning with <<man_install3_step7,Step 7>>.

IMPORTANT: You must reconfigure FC onboard ports, CNA onboard ports, and CNA cards before you boot ONTAP on the V-Series or system with FlexArray Virtualization software.
|===

. [[man_install3_step7]]Add the FC initiator ports of the new node to the switch zones.
+
If your system has a tape SAN, then you need zoning for the initiators. See your storage array and zoning documentation for instructions.

. [[man_install3_step8]]Add the FC initiator ports to the storage array as new hosts, mapping the array LUNs to the new hosts.
+
See your storage array and zoning documentation for instructions.

. [[man_install3_step9]] Modify the World Wide Port Name (WWPN) values in the host or volume groups associated with array LUNs on the storage array.
+
Installing a new controller module changes the WWPN values associated with each onboard FC port.

. [[man_install3_step10]]If your configuration uses switch-based zoning, adjust the zoning to reflect the new WWPN values.

. [[man_install3_step11]]Verify that the array LUNs are now visible to node3:
+
`sysconfig -v`
+
The system displays all the array LUNs visible to each of the FC initiator ports. If the array LUNs are not visible, you will not be able to reassign disks from node1 to node3 later in this section.

. [[man_install3_step12]]Press Ctrl-C to display the boot menu and select maintenance mode.

. [[man_install3_step13]]At the Maintenance mode prompt, enter the following command:
+
`halt`
+
The system stops at the boot environment prompt.

. [[man_install3_step14]]Take one of the following actions:
+
[cols="35,65"]
|===
|If the system you are upgrading to is in a... |Then...

|Dual-chassis configuration (with controllers in different chassis)
|Go to <<man_install3_step15,Step 15>>.
|Single-chassis configuration (with controllers in the same chassis)
a|.. Switch the console cable from node3 to node4.

.. Turn on the power to node4, and then interrupt the boot process by pressing Ctrl-C at the console terminal to access the boot environment prompt.
+
The power should already be on if both controllers are in the same chassis.
+
NOTE: Leave node4 at the boot environment prompt; you will return to node4 in link:install_boot_node4.html[Install and boot node4].

.. If you see the warning message displayed in <<man_install3_step4,Step 4>>, follow the instructions in <<man_install3_step5,Step 5>>

.. Switch the console cable back from node4 to node3.

.. Go to <<man_install3_step15,Step 15>>.
|===

. [[man_install3_step15]]Configure node3 for ONTAP:
+
`set-defaults`
// 2022 APR 17, ontap-systems-upgrade-issues-64/BURT 1519747

Commit message:

AFFFASDOC-329 Add note to secure drives

_include/ru_man_install_boot_node3_intro_to_step_15.adoc, after:

You must install node3 in the rack, transfer node1's connections to node3, boot node3, and install ONTAP. You must also reassign any of node1's spare disks, any disks belonging to the root volume, and any non-root aggregates not relocated to node2 earlier.

.About this task

You must netboot node3 if it doesn't have the same version of ONTAP 9 that is installed on node1. After you install node3, boot it from the ONTAP 9 image stored on the web server. You can then download the correct files to the boot media device for subsequent system boots. See link:prepare_for_netboot.html[Prepare for netboot].

However, you don't need to netboot node3 if it has the same or a later version of ONTAP 9 that is installed on node1.

[IMPORTANT]
====
* If you upgrading an AFF A700, AFF A800, or AFF C800 controller, you must ensure that all drives in the chassis are firmly seated against the midplane before removing node1. You do this from the front of the chassis by using your thumbs to push each drive until you feel a positive stop. 

* If you are upgrading a V-Series system connected to storage arrays or a system with FlexArray Virtualization software that is connected to storage arrays, you must complete <<man_install3_step1, Step 1>> through <<man_install3_step5,Step 5>>, leave this section at <<man_install3_step6,Step 6>> and follow instructions in link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node3[Configure FC ports on node3] and link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#uta-ports-node3[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3] as needed, entering commands in maintenance mode. You must then return to this section and resume with <<man_install3_step7,Step 7>>.

* If you are upgrading a system with storage disks, you must complete this entire section and then go to link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node3[Configure FC ports on node3] and link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#uta-ports-node3[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3], entering commands at the cluster prompt.
====

.Steps

. [[man_install3_step1]]Make sure that you have rack space for node3.
+
If node1 and node2 were in separate chassis, you can put node3 in the same rack location as node1. However, if node1 was in the same chassis with node2, then you must put node3 into its own rack space, preferably close to the location of node1.

. [[step2]]Install node3 in the rack, following the _Installation and Setup Instructions_ for your node model.
+
NOTE: If you are upgrading to a system with both nodes in the same chassis, install node4 in the chassis as well as node3. If you do not, when you boot node3, the node will behave as if it were in a dual-chassis configuration, and when you boot node4, the interconnect between the nodes will not come up.

. [[step3]]Cable node3, moving the connections from node1 to node3.
+
The following references help you make proper cable connections. Go to link:other_references.html[References] to link to them.
+
* _Installation and Setup Instructions_ or _FlexArray Virtualization Installation Requirements and Reference_ for the node3 platform
* The appropriate disk shelf procedure
* The _HA pair management_ documentation

+
Cable the following connections:

* Console (remote management port)
* Cluster ports
* Data ports
* Cluster and node management ports
* Storage
* SAN configurations: iSCSI Ethernet and FC switch ports
+
NOTE: You might not need to move the interconnect card or the cluster interconnect cable connection from node1 to node3 because most platform models have a unique interconnect card model. For the MetroCluster configuration, you must move the FC-VI cable connections from node1 to node3. If the new host does not have an FC-VI card, you might need to move the FC-VI card.

. [[man_install3_step4]]Turn on the power to node3, and then interrupt the boot process by pressing Ctrl-C at the console terminal to access the boot environment prompt.
+
If you are upgrading to a system with both nodes in the same chassis, node4 also reboots. However, you can disregard the node4 boot until later.
+
NOTE: When you boot node3, you might see the following warning message:
+
----
WARNING: The battery is unfit to retain data during a power outage. This is likely because the battery is discharged but could be due to other temporary conditions.
When the battery is ready, the boot process will complete and services will be engaged.
To override this delay, press 'c' followed by 'Enter'
----

. [[man_install3_step5]]If you see the warning message in <<man_install3_step4,Step 4>>, take the following actions:
.. Check for any console messages that might indicate a problem other than a low NVRAM battery, and, if necessary, take any required corrective action.
.. Allow the battery to charge and the boot process to complete.
+
NOTE: *Attention*: Do not override the delay; failure to allow the battery to charge could result in a loss of data.

. [[man_install3_step6]]Take one of the following actions:
+
[cols="35,65"]
|===
|If your system... |Then...

|Has disks and no back-end storage
|Skip Step 7 through Step 12 and go to <<man_install3_step13,Step 13>>.
|Is a V-Series system or a system with FlexArray Virtualization software connected to storage arrays
a|.. Go to link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html[Set the FC or UTA/UTA2 configuration on node3] and complete the subsections link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#configure-fc-ports-on-node3[Configure FC ports on node3] and link:set_fc_uta_uta2_config_node3.html#uta-ports-node3[Check and configure UTA/UTA2 ports on node3], as appropriate to your system.

.. Return to this section and complete the remaining steps, beginning with <<man_install3_step7,Step 7>>.

IMPORTANT: You must reconfigure FC onboard ports, CNA onboard ports, and CNA cards before you boot ONTAP on the V-Series or system with FlexArray Virtualization software.
|===

. [[man_install3_step7]]Add the FC initiator ports of the new node to the switch zones.
+
If your system has a tape SAN, then you need zoning for the initiators. See your storage array and zoning documentation for instructions.

. [[man_install3_step8]]Add the FC initiator ports to the storage array as new hosts, mapping the array LUNs to the new hosts.
+
See your storage array and zoning documentation for instructions.

. [[man_install3_step9]] Modify the World Wide Port Name (WWPN) values in the host or volume groups associated with array LUNs on the storage array.
+
Installing a new controller module changes the WWPN values associated with each onboard FC port.

. [[man_install3_step10]]If your configuration uses switch-based zoning, adjust the zoning to reflect the new WWPN values.

. [[man_install3_step11]]Verify that the array LUNs are now visible to node3:
+
`sysconfig -v`
+
The system displays all the array LUNs visible to each of the FC initiator ports. If the array LUNs are not visible, you will not be able to reassign disks from node1 to node3 later in this section.

. [[man_install3_step12]]Press Ctrl-C to display the boot menu and select maintenance mode.

. [[man_install3_step13]]At the Maintenance mode prompt, enter the following command:
+
`halt`
+
The system stops at the boot environment prompt.

. [[man_install3_step14]]Take one of the following actions:
+
[cols="35,65"]
|===
|If the system you are upgrading to is in a... |Then...

|Dual-chassis configuration (with controllers in different chassis)
|Go to <<man_install3_step15,Step 15>>.
|Single-chassis configuration (with controllers in the same chassis)
a|.. Switch the console cable from node3 to node4.

.. Turn on the power to node4, and then interrupt the boot process by pressing Ctrl-C at the console terminal to access the boot environment prompt.
+
The power should already be on if both controllers are in the same chassis.
+
NOTE: Leave node4 at the boot environment prompt; you will return to node4 in link:install_boot_node4.html[Install and boot node4].

.. If you see the warning message displayed in <<man_install3_step4,Step 4>>, follow the instructions in <<man_install3_step5,Step 5>>

.. Switch the console cable back from node4 to node3.

.. Go to <<man_install3_step15,Step 15>>.
|===

. [[man_install3_step15]]Configure node3 for ONTAP:
+
`set-defaults`
// 2022 APR 17, ontap-systems-upgrade-issues-64/BURT 1519747
