upgrade-arl-manual-app/index.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-manual-app/index.html
keywords:  controller, aggregate, relocation, flexarray, manual, upgrade, metrocluster
summary: "Using the manual ARL upgrade procedure to upgrade controller hardware running ONTAP 9.8 or later, relocating the ownership of non-root aggregates."
---

= Overview
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
This procedure describes how to upgrade the controller hardware using aggregate relocation (ARL) for the following system configurations:

[cols=3*,options="header",cols="20,20,60"]
|===
|Method |ONTAP version |Supported systems

|Manual upgrade using ARL
|9.8 or later
a|* FAS system to FAS system
* FAS system to a system with FlexArray Virtualization Software or a V-Series system
* AFF system to AFF system
+
You can only upgrade to a replacement system in the same series:

** AFF A-Series system to AFF A-Series system
** AFF C-Series system to AFF C-Series system
* ASA system to ASA system
+
ASA upgrades to an ASA r2 replacement system aren't supported. For information on migrating data from ASA to ASA r2, see link:https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/asa-r2/install-setup/set-up-data-access.html[Enable data access from SAN hosts to your ASA r2 storage system^].
+
You can only upgrade to a replacement system in the same series:

** ASA A-Series system to ASA A-Series system
** ASA C-Series system to ASA C-Series system
* System with FlexArray Virtualization Software or a V-Series system to a FAS system, provided that the system with FlexArray Virtualization Software or V-Series system has no array LUNs.
* V-Series system to a system with FlexArray Virtualization Software or a V-Series system
|===



include::../_include/ru_man_use_arl_overview.adoc[]

* In addition to non-MetroCluster configurations, this procedure applies to Fabric MetroCluster four-node and eight-node configurations running ONTAP 9.8 and later.

** For MetroCluster configurations running ONTAP 9.7 and earlier, go to link:other_references.html[References] to link to _Using Aggregate Relocation to Manually Upgrade Controller Hardware Running ONTAP 9.7 or Earlier_.

** For MetroCluster IP configurations and additional upgrade options for Fabric MetroCluster
configurations, go to link:other_references.html[References] to link to the _MetroCluster Upgrade and Expansion_ content.

// 2024 NOV 29, AFFFASDOC-282
// 2021 FEB 24,  Formatted from CMS

Commit message:

Restructure sidebar and replace "Overview" topic titles

upgrade-arl-manual-app/index.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: upgrade-arl-manual-app/index.html
keywords:  controller, aggregate, relocation, flexarray, manual, upgrade, metrocluster
summary: "Using the manual ARL upgrade procedure to upgrade controller hardware running ONTAP 9.8 or later, relocating the ownership of non-root aggregates."
---
= Learn about using this ARL procedure
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

This procedure describes how to upgrade controller hardware using manual aggregate relocation (ARL) on systems running ONTAP 9.8 or later.

You can use this ARL procedure if you are performing one of the following upgrades:

* FAS system to FAS system
* FAS system to a system with FlexArray Virtualization Software or a V-Series system
* AFF system to AFF system
+
You can only upgrade to a replacement system in the same series:

** AFF A-Series system to AFF A-Series system
** AFF C-Series system to AFF C-Series system
* ASA system to ASA system
+
ASA upgrades to an ASA r2 replacement system aren't supported. For information on migrating data from ASA to ASA r2, see link:https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/asa-r2/install-setup/set-up-data-access.html[Enable data access from SAN hosts to your ASA r2 storage system^].
+
You can only upgrade to a replacement system in the same series:

** ASA A-Series system to ASA A-Series system
** ASA C-Series system to ASA C-Series system
* System with FlexArray Virtualization Software or a V-Series system to a FAS system, provided that the system with FlexArray Virtualization Software or V-Series system has no array LUNs.
* V-Series system to a system with FlexArray Virtualization Software or a V-Series system

include::../_include/ru_man_use_arl_overview.adoc[]

* In addition to non-MetroCluster configurations, this procedure applies to Fabric MetroCluster four-node and eight-node configurations running ONTAP 9.8 and later.

** For MetroCluster configurations running ONTAP 9.7 and earlier, go to link:other_references.html[References] to link to _Using Aggregate Relocation to Manually Upgrade Controller Hardware Running ONTAP 9.7 or Earlier_.

** For MetroCluster IP configurations and additional upgrade options for Fabric MetroCluster
configurations, go to link:other_references.html[References] to link to the _MetroCluster Upgrade and Expansion_ content.

// 2024 NOV 29, AFFFASDOC-282
// 2021 FEB 24,  Formatted from CMS
